{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1036{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\ul\b\i\f0\fs40\lang12 MySQL\par
\cf0\ulnone\b0\i0\f1\fs22 This is one of the most popular relational database systems. Originally an open-source solution, MySQL now is owned by Oracle Corporation. Today, MySQL is a pillar of LAMP application software. That means it\rquote s a part of Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Perl/PHP/Python stack. Having C and C++ under the hood, MySQL works well with such system platforms as Windows, Linux, MacOS, IRIX, and others.\par
Pros of MySQL\par
Free installation. The community edition of MySQL is free to download. With a basic set of tools for individual use, MySQL community edition is a good option to begin with. Of course, there are other, prepaid options for Enterprise or Cluster purposes with richer functionality. Nevertheless, if your company is too small to pay for one of them, the free-to-download model is the most suitable for a fresh start.\par
\par
Simple syntax and mild complexity. MySQL\rquote s structure and style are very plain. Developers even consider MySQL a database with a human-like language. As MySQL is often used in tandem with PHP programming language. Because they share a gentle learning curve, you won\rquote t need to hire a skilled developer to manage your database. Also, MySQL is easy to use. For instance, most of the tasks can be executed right in the command line, reducing development steps.\par
\par
Cloud-compatible. Business-oriented by nature and originally developed for the web,MySQL is supported by the most popular cloud providers. It\rquote s available on such leading platforms as Amazon, Microsoft, and others. This makes MySQL even more attractive and gives businesses using it room for growth.\par
\par
Cons of MySQL\par
Scalability challenges. MySQL was not built with scalability in mind, which is inherent in its code. In theory, you can scale MySQL, but it will need more engineering effort as compared to any of the NoSQL databases. So, if you expect one day your database will increase substantially, keep this limitation in mind or choose another DBMS option.\par
\par
Partial open source. Although MySQL has the open-source part, it\rquote s mostly under Oracle\rquote s license. This limits the MySQL community in terms of improving the DBMS. Why do you care? Because when you have completely open-source support, you expect many problem-specific implementations and community assistance. This is not the case when the software belongs to corporate owners and you\rquote ll have to pay for support.\par
Limited compliance with SQL standards. Structured Query Language has specific standards. MySQL doesn\rquote t completely follow them, i.e. MySQL provides no support for some standard SQL features. On the other hand, MySQL has some extensions and distinct features that don\rquote t match the Structured Query Language standards. It\rquote s not a big deal for small web applications. The issues may appear when you have to shift to other databases, which is likely to happen when your business starts growing.\par
\par
Use cases\par
Small web-based solutions. MySQL database system is the best option when you\rquote re designing a small, web-based solution with a small volume of data. For example, when building a local eCommerce store, MySQL may come in handy.\par
\par
OLAP/OLTP systems. This is one of the best use cases for a MySQL database, as OLAP/OLTP don\rquote t require complex queries and large volumes of data. Also, consider applying MySQL for the same reason if you\rquote re building a business intelligence tool.\par
\cf1\ul\b\i\f0\fs40 PostgreSQL\par
\cf0\ulnone\b0\i0\f1\fs22 This database management system shares its popularity with MySQL. This is an object-relational DBMS where user-defined objects and table approach are combined to build more complex data structures. Besides that, PostgreSQL has a lot of similarities with MySQL. It\rquote s aimed at strengthening the standards of compliance and extensibility. Consequently, it can process any workload, for both single-machine products and complex applications. Owned and developed by PostgreSQL Global Development Group, it still remains a completely open source. This DBMS is available for use with such platform systems as Microsoft, iOS, Android, and many more.\par
\par
Pros of Postgre\par
Scalable. Vertical scalability is a hallmark of PostgreSQL, unlike MySQL DBMS. Considering that almost any custom software solution tends to grow, resulting in database extension, this particular option certainly supports business growth and development.\par
\par
Support for custom data types. PostgreSQL natively supports a large number of data types by default, such as JSON, XML, H-Store, and others. PostgreSQL takes advantage of it, being one of the few relational databases with strong support for NoSQL features. Additionally, it allows users to define their own data types. As your software business model may need different types of databases throughout its existence for better performance or application comprehensiveness, this option brings improved flexibility to the table.\par
\par
Easily-integrated third-party tools. PostgreSQL database management system has the strong support of additional tools, both free and commercial. The scope of these includes extensions to improve many aspects. For example, ClusterControl provides impressive assistance at managing, monitoring, and scaling SQL and NoSQL open source databases. To make data comparison and synchronization more effective, consider using DB Data Difftective. In case you\rquote re going to scale up your data to heavy workloads, pgBackRest backup and restore system will be a nice option to choose.\par
\par
Open-source and community-driven. Postgres is completely open-source and supported by its community, which strengthens it as a complete ecosystem. Additionally, developers can always expect free and prompt community assistance.\par
\par
Cons of Postgre\par
Inconsistent documentation. While PostgreSQL has a large community and provides strong support for its participants, the documentation still lacks consistency and completeness. As the PostgreSQL community is rather distributed, the documentation doesn\rquote t follow equal standards for all Postgre features.\par
\par
Lack of reporting and auditing instruments. A significant shortcoming of PostgreSQL is the absence of revising tools that would show the current condition of a database. You have to continuously check if something goes wrong. There\rquote s always a risk that DB engineers will notice a failure too late.\par
Use cases\par
Due to complicated queries and a wide choice of custom interfaces accomplished with predefined functions, PostgreSQL is a perfect match for data analysis and warehousing. If you are building a database automation tool, PostgreSQL is the best fit for it due to its strong analytical capabilities, ACID-compliance, and powerful SQL engine. All in one, it significantly accelerates the processing of vast amounts of data. This DBMS is popular with financial institutions and telecommunication systems.\par
\cf1\ul\b\i\f0\fs40 MSSQL\par
\cf0\ulnone\b0\i0\f1\fs22 As a completely commercial tool, Microsoft SQL Server is one of the most popular relational DBMS, in addition to MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle. It copes well with effective storing, changing, and managing relational data. To interact with SQL Server databases, DB engineers usually utilize the Transact-SQL (T-SQL) language, which is an extension of the SQL standard.\par
\par
Pros of MSSQL\par
Variety of versions. Microsoft SQL Server provides a wide choice of different options with diverse functionalities. For instance, the Express edition with a free database offers entry-level tooling, the perfect match for learning and building desktop or small server data-driven applications. The Developers option allows for building and testing applications including some enterprise functionalities, but without a production server license. For bigger projects, there are also Web, Standard, and Enterprise editions, with a varying extent of administrative capabilities and service levels.\par
\par
End-to-end business data solution. With a focus on mostly commercial solutions, MSSQL provides a lot of business value-added features. The optional selection of components allows building ETL solutions, forming a knowledge base, and implementing data clearance. Also, it provides tools for overall data administration, online analytical processing, and data mining, additionally providing options for report and visualization generation.\par
\par
Rich documentation and community assistance. With Microsoft SQL Server aimed at comprehensive database maintenance, the full online documentation also reflects this concept. The consequently structured guidelines, numerous whitepapers, and demos give a full picture on the MSSQL data system. Also, Microsoft Premier provides access to dedicated Microsoft community support, which is an advantage when a DB engineer needs assistance.\par
\par
Cloud database support. Being a part of the consistent Microsoft ecosystem, MSSQL can be integrated with Microsoft cloud, Azure SQL Database, or SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. The solutions allow shifting database administration to the cloud if your business software database becomes really overwhelming and hard to administer.\par
\par
Cons of MSSQL\par
Cost-consuming. Being mostly used at enterprise scale, MSSQL Server remains one of the most expensive solutions. Speaking of numbers, the Enterprise edition currently costs over $14, 000 per core, sold as 2 core packs.\par
\par
Unclear and floating license conditions. Another issue is the ever-changing licensing process. The pricing strategy itself is hard to understand and the elements included in a particular edition are floating, tending to shift from one to another.\par
\par
Complicated tuning process. For those beginners who have to operate heavy data sets, working with query optimization and performance tuning may be problematic. As the process is not so obvious, it can create substantial bottlenecks early on.\par
\par
Use cases\par
MSSQL Server is a reasonable option for companies with other Microsoft product subscriptions. As Microsoft creates a sustainable ecosystem with well-integrated services, the MSSQL here with its access to cloud and powerful data retrieval tools comes in handy.\par
}
 